# Design Decisions :thinking:

## Beginning Stages:

### Colours:
As we were creating a space game we chose more purple themed colours.

### Why a Cat:
Many in our group love cats so we decided to make a cat a prominent character in the game.
- **The Cat** is the one who tells the player what to do and gives them hints, essentially a mysterious sassy sage like figure.

### Theme:
We went with the space theme as it seemed like a really cool setting for our story and our mysterious Cat.
- **The Background** Due to the setting being in space, a background with the stars and the milky galaxy was appropriate, naturally this contains the sun and a view of earth from the moon! It adds a sense of realism to the scene.
- Using 3D images of some of models as the inventory slot icons instead of hand drawn 2D images.
  - This was done so that users can make a clearer distinction between the objects (some objects still have 2D drawings as they were more readily availible).

### Level 1 Blue print:
We added an interactive blue print to make it easier for the player to find things around the level 1 map.

### Type of Game:
- Initially we were thinking of doing a more puzzle solving game - but then we agreed on a more "finding/collecting" sort of game. We decided to add an oxygen meter which would decrease over time so as to add challange to our game.
- We decided to make a custom cat model as it would be easier then finding an external model that would fit our great **The Cat**'s asthetic.

### Movement:
We went with the standerd WASD, with shift for sprint and space to jump.

### Collision:
- A very flat moon was created as it would be easier for our gravity system (jumping) and collision detection system.
- We decided collision would be added for objects as we felt it would be simpler to implement.

### Oxygen:
- The oxygen takes 8 minutes and 20 seconds to decrease in level 1.

### Ask for help:
- We decided to allow for a clue system - though it requires 10 oxygen per clue so that it is not to easy.

### Decrease starter oxygen for level 2 and 3:
- We decided to do this to increase difficulty.

## Later Stages:

### Level 2 and 3 Locations
We finalised level 2 and 3 locations to be mars and an astroid as we were not exactly sure of what order to do.

### Level 3 Code
We wanted a slightly fresher take on our system so we utilised a code input to complete the third level.

### Added Glow theme to UI
We refined the user interface to have glow elements.

